# :globe_with_meridians: Wazuh: The Free and Open Source SIEM/XDR Platform

> **Original Source:** [Wazuh: The Free and Open Source SIEM/XDR Platform](https://infosecwriteups.com/wazuh-the-free-and-open-source-siem-xdr-platform-416f157f1c62)
> **Platform:** infosecwriteups.com | **Category:** `WEB`

---

# Wazuh: The Free and Open Source SIEM/XDR Platform


## Introduction


Wazuh is a free and open-source security platform that provides unified XDR and SIEM protection for endpoints and cloud workloads.


The Wazuh comprises of mainly 4 components:


- Wazuh Indexer: indexes and stores alerts generated by Wazuh server.

- Wazuh Server: analyzes data from agents and manages them.

- Wazuh Dashboard: a web interface for data visualization and management.

- Wazuh Agents: installed on endpoints, provide threat prevention, detection, and response capabilities.

## Configuration


I’ll guide you through configuring Wazuh. I’ve implemented 3 Virtual Machines: one serves as the Wazuh Server, while the other two function as Linux and Windows agents.


*VMware with 3 Virtual Machines*

### Setting Up the Server


To install the Wazuh Server, below script was executed on Ubuntu machine:


```
curl -sO https://packages.wazuh.com/4.7/wazuh-install.sh && sudo bash ./wazuh-install.sh -a

```


Now, save the credentials for future use.


*Credentials upon successful installation*


Once it is done, check if all the services are active using the below queries.


```
systemctl status wazuh-dashboard.service
systemctl status wazuh-indexer
systemctl status wazuh-manager.service

```


*Checking status of the Wazuh services*


If anyone of the service is down, start the service using the command ‘*systemctl start <service_name>’*

### Configuring the Agents


Now, open the wazuh web interface on any browser. Type in the local IP address or localhost in the search bar.


*Wazuh Login Page*


From the dropdown menu, navigate to the "Agents" section and proceed to deploy a new agent. (Here, I have already deployed two agents.)


*Wazuh Web Portal - Agents*


In the next page, choose the suitable configurations and copy the following command.


## Get Muraleekrishnan Unnithan R’s stories in your inbox


Join Medium for free to get updates from this writer.


Remember me for faster sign in


(Server address should be the Wazuh server’s IP, which is the same as in the browser URL).


Sample command looks like below:


```
wget https://packages.wazuh.com/4.x/apt/pool/main/w/wazuh-agent/wazuh-agent_4.7.3-1_amd64.deb && sudo WAZUH_MANAGER=’XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX' WAZUH_AGENT_GROUP=’default’ WAZUH_AGENT_NAME=’linux-agent’ dpkg -i ./wazuh-agent_4.7.3–1_amd64.deb
```


Execute the copied command on to the respective agents’ command-line interface (run as root/admin) and subsequently restart the Wazuh agents.


Upon successful deployment, the Active Agents will be visible on the server.


*Wazuh Web Portal - Agents*

---

*Originally published on [Medium](https://infosecwriteups.com/wazuh-the-free-and-open-source-siem-xdr-platform-416f157f1c62). All credit goes to the original author.*
*Part of [CTF Collection](https://github.com/Hope0351/CTF-collection) — a curated archive of web CTF writeups.*
